---
layout: post
title: Atlas
lang: en
ref: update-5
author: David Ranger
---

at·las
/ˈatləs/
noun: atlas; plural noun: atlases;
A book of maps or charts.

---

Atlas is the name of our product solution to guide applicants along the security screening process at Transport Canada. As a communication tool, Atlas provides a series of instructions and notifications that help users through the PGS process. The goal is to provide consistency in the information applicants receive, and keep the process moving forward.


## Why Atlas?
Atlas is the response to the most frequent comments we received during our research & discovery. Here are a few quotes.

"It would have been nice to know what the next steps were before going through the security clearance process. It was more like 'here is a form, fill it out, send it back." - Applicant

"It would have been great to know what the next step is so I could book a day off from work. I was constantly wondering" 'Am I done or is there another step I haven’t been told about yet?'" - Applicant

“Follow-up is a big part of our job. We need help on that side. Make sure that our actions are updated, our information is updated, follow-up with security and staffing. Ensure that we still have the tracking. The updated information day by day” - Hiring Manager

## What is Atlas?
In simple terms, Atlas is a collection of email templates that are connected to the screening request process with triggers. Consistent messages will be sent to everyone who needs to be notified of specific events, and we can be sure that everyone is getting the information they need.

We are currently exploring technologies to use for this. At the top of our list is GC Notify, a service provided by the Canadian Digital Service. GC Notify supports templates and, in addition to emails, it also supports SMS. It is a great option for a federal service because it creates consistency across the government. Our initial version of Atlas is using GC Notify.

An alternative option we are exploring is keeping the templates native to Appian. It would take a bit more work since we would be doing the template system ourselves, but we’d have more flexibility in customizing the look & feel of our emails.

## When is Atlas Used?
Atlas will be the primary method of automated communication between Appian and the applicant. When a screening request is commenced, the applicant is sent an initial email that includes an overview of the screening process. As Transport Canada processes the request, there are checkpoints that will trigger Atlas to send a new email. These are each very easy to set up.

## How is Atlas Used?
One of the core features of Atlas is a keyword replacement system. GC Notify supports very simple search & replace. In the GC Notify template, the string “((First Name))” will be replaced by GC Notify with whatever value Appian sends as the “First Name”.

This requires telling Appian what to send. To facilitate this, a simplified configuration screen is provided to template writers. They aren’t expected to understand the programming needed to implement it, but all the author needs to do is tell Appian which keywords GC Notify is looking for. Developers are able to look at the same configuration screen and implement them as appropriate.

Atlas also has a keyword chart for more complex conditional logic. A chart similar to an excel spreadsheet can be built for conditions. For example, the author of a template can have different strings depending on the security level of the request.

## What Atlas means for Transport Canada
Atlas is a solution that can help to navigate potential employees through the security screening process at Transport Canada. It will improve the quality of application packages Transport Canada receives, which will directly improve the capacity to intake and process. It minimizes room for error by clearly communicating the security screening process for the people behind the application forms. We look forward to further improving Atlas with the help of our government partners and team. Our goal moving forward is ensuring to provide value to the security screening process at Transport Canada through.
